Hello and welcome back.
And today we'll be taking a look at the last option of manipulating databases or tables deleting them.
So let's go ahead open our my database open up our columns go ahead and select new quarry.
So tool and here you can write and select all for movies just to make sure we didn't change anything
in between.
And as you can see our directors Christopher Nolan most of it is empty.
We have movie name and we have movie year and character as well.
Now what we can do is the first thing I want to do is I want to delete this test movie this Deathstroke
because it just messes up the whole database.
And it really brings no value.
And so in order to do that what I've done is I basically have to say delete then I have to say from
where I want to delete from movies and I want to put in condition that where movie name equals to test.
So now for on this it says that deletes everything we can go ahead and refresh select all from movies.
An hour from this we can see that this column distro of data has been indeed deleted and others.
Very good for us.
Now let's say one a dropped dead director call.
We just didn't like it.
We didn't have time to fill in the data or we didn't have enough data to fill it in with in order to
do this.
We have to come back to our ultra function because we're not working with the data inside of this column.
We're working with movies table.
We have to say that we're working with movies table first of all.
And then we have to drop the columns so alter movies drop director and now for we're It will say that
everything is done and if we just refresh it here we can see that it was ready.
No direct recall them.
So again because we were working with our column rather than inside that column we had to use the ultra
function.
Now let's talk about the dropkicks can't function.
So what's the difference between Tropika skate and drop drop because Kate drove this column.
This table this database and anything else that's depending on it.
So this will prevent you from having data that doesn't exist.
For example if you were using the country in another table from table movies and you delete table movies
then that table will have no information in its country column.
So that's why you want to drop because Kate most of the time you just want to drop because you will
not have a big scheme.
But if you do have a scheme where if you do have a lot of data depending on each other then you want
to do a drop cascade again.
Alternatively you can do all of this inside the Jetman by simply clicking here selecting delete drop
and it will do everything automatically for you.
The same goes for the table.
All you need to do is right click on it.
Select Delete drop or drop cascade and goes for my database.
So again you can just like delete drop and it will do everything for you.
OK so we have learned a lot about creating and maintaining databases.
We've learned how to create a database where we learn how to lead and learn how to create a table and
how to fill this table with columns and these columns of data that we've created ourselves.
We've learned how to put different constraints and primary keys on the tables.
We've learned how to update them.
Alternate name and add new columns to already existing tables.
That's a lot of tools that will allow you to do most common operations with tables.
The most important thing is that you should not be afraid of it working with databases working with
database structures and table structures is as easy if not easier than working with data inside those
tables.
The only thing you need to really understand is you need to understand the logic behind it and when
it comes to this skill is very logical as you can see again.
If we select alter we need to specify if we're altering a table then we need to specify which column
were altered.
Then we need to specify the column name and then we want to do what we're going to do with this column.
If we're deleting we need to say what are we deleting if we're deleting a database then we deleted.
If we're dropping it we're going to drop it and if we're creating again we need to specify it for getting
a database we're writing database of overtraining in the table we need to specify that it's going to
be a table.
It's very logical if falls all this indexers of most other languages and I really hope you'll have no
mistakes in this part of bascule But if you do have any just come back to this section re watch every
lecture try to create your own database try to create your own table filled with your own information.
Just following the example I set.
So now for the last Partlow.
Go ahead and delete the whole database my database so it doesn't distract us anymore.
In on this what we need to do we need to drop database my database and if we click right now it will
give us an issue because we are currently inside as database.
So what do we need to do.
We need to click here on any other database we need to open a new query tool inside that database.
We need to close this one.
Otherwise it will give us another mistake.
And inside this new query we need to say we want a drop database and then say my base there we go.
It's dropped.
It takes a bit of time to drop the database especially because it's filled with some data and some constraints
and some functions.
So there we go.
It's all done.
And sorry about that.
Just the way this mistake would just close it and disconnected this way.
It will not give us any of these mistakes.
Now as you can see it's done enough quicker.
And now for a refresh here it's gone but it's not gone forever.
You can always create a new database and I hope you will create a new database and fill it with a lot
of awesome data and I really hope you enjoyed this section.
It's a different approach to ask you well but it's still the same.
As long as you understand the logic behind it you will be right.
You can always find any specific use of functions or any specific task you need to complete on the internets
or inside the Help section of BGA admin.
If you're working with some big data and you have to do this one thing that nobody else has done or
less than 1 percent of people using admin do you can always click click on help go to admin website
or postgresql website go to documentation section and figure out what you need to do.
But in order to understand what exact function you want or what's the exact data you're going to be
working at or the table you need to understand the whole process behind it.
And I hope this section help you develop exactly that and I hope you enjoyed this whole section.
It was a lot of fun creating our own database filling it with whatever information we want and then
ultimately deleting it and I'll see you in the next one.